- companies have assets

- custom asset creation guidelines:
    - If an Asset gives a +2d bonus to a company’s Quality or pool, it should only do it in a very
narrow set of circumstances. This could be for one particular type of roll (“only Might rolls
made to defend Territory”), or after a certain prerequisite is fulfilled (“after the Company has
convinced the targets of some relevant lie”).
    - If an Asset gives a +3d bonus, it should only be usable one time, and in narrow circumstances.


Influence Assets

Being a shifty and liquid property already, “the ability to change minds and learn things”
lends itself readily to situational edges.
Sinister Operatives
Agents of this stripe never show up on battlefields, never engage in fair fights and
almost never reveal their origin (if they even know it). Sometimes they’re heartless
mercenaries. Other times they’re ideological fanatics. You get a +2d bonus when rolling
Might+Influence to perform an act of unconventional warfare. This bonus isn’t applied
for escape, or when they’re trying to avoid detection beforehand.
Epic History
Your Company, or the people in it, have a history of impressive deeds. Perhaps their
ancestors were great heroes ages ago, or perhaps they did something mighty just last year.
However it went, the people in the Company know they have something to be proud of,
and it shows. +2d bonus every time you roll Sovereignty+Treasure to temporarily increase
your Influence.
Small Horizon
It seems like everybody knows everybody else -- and knows their business. Even a huge
nation can seem claustrophobic if its gossip web is sufficiently broad. Or your Company
may be a claustrophobic small town. When rolling Sovereignty+Treasure to improve
Influence, the Difficulty is always reduced by 1.
Entangling Alliance
Your Company is tightly linked with another, though they remain separate and
autonomous. It could be through a formal treaty, a political marriage, vassalage to the
same master, religious obligations or cultural tradition. Pick one other Company. You
have +2 Influence when dealing with them, and they have +2 Influence when dealing with
you. This can’t push Influence above 6.
Assets
105
Companies
Eloquent Diplomats
Your company has a cadre of professional negotiators who do nothing but pursue your
interests. It may be an entire corps of elaborately-titled ambassadors, it may be a few
bards with great hair, or it could just be the village brewer. You get a +2d bonus to all rolls
when rolling Influence+Treasure to alter opinions in another Company.
Mole
Someone in a sensitive position owes you. You can call in this debt one time only. After
that your mole decides you’re even, or gets discovered and loses his authority (if not his
life), or he loses power because the results of his betrayal are perceived as incompetence.
Pick one Company and one specific use of Influence. The next time you roll that use of
Influence against that Company, add a +3d bonus.
Might Assets
Every army has its strengths and weaknesses, so a straight Might rating with no Assets
indicates a superbly balanced force. To give a force a little more flavor, use these Assets.
Irregular Forces
People who specialize excel, but often at the cost of versatility. Irregular forces are
versatile, often at the cost of excellence at any one task. They can’t fight an entrenched
battle like heavy infantry. They’re not as mobile as cavalry or as devastating as siege
engines. But when it comes to dirty deeds and living to tell the tale, they’re unparalleled.
+2d bonus when rolling Might+Influence to get troops out after an Unconventional
Attack. This bonus does not apply to the attack itself or to staying hidden beforehand.
Shipshape Navy
Numbers are a major factor in a military conflict—but only if they can be safely delivered
to the battle. A small army may have an advantage if it’s experienced with amphibious
assault and has reliable boats to drop it at vulnerable points along the enemy’s coast. (For
ship to ship engagements, the benefits of better boats are obvious.) +2d bonus to all Might
rolls made when your Company is fighting aboard ships or boats.
Magic Resistant
Average bulk soldiers are vulnerable to powerful magic. Most soldiers are frightened by
magic—and if they’ve seen a friend reduced to ashes by it, that’s a justified fear.
Some fighting forces are less intimidated, however. It may be that they’re tough, brave
and experienced. It may be they’re from a sorcerous culture and regard it with proper
fear, but no more than is proper. Or it may be blissful ignorance. Add a +2d bonus to
Might rolls when your enemy depends heavily on sorcery.
Assets
106
Chapter Four
Keen
Is there a nice way to say, “your military forces kill with enthusiasm”? It may be bloodlust, or
it could be that grim experience has taught them that when you’re ahead, you don’t relax. +2d
to all rolls when Might is brought to bear against a Company with lower permanent Might.
Classic Enemy
There is some group that has, historically and throughout legend, been the enemy of
your Company. Realizing they’re behind an attack lights a fire of righteous rage in every
defender’s heart. Pick one particular other Company, religion, or ethnicity that your
followers consider blasphemous, evil, or a rival. If you’re attacked by members of that
group, you have a +3d bonus to the first Might+Territory roll you make in defense.
Unexpected Deliverance
At some point, a battle turns unexpectedly, due to an unforeseen factor. (At the very least,
unforeseen by the people on the bad side of the Asset.) Whether it’s fate, a carefully planned
long term strategy, the arrival of an unlooked-for hero, or dumb luck, it is a very big deal.
You can add a +3d bonus to one attack or defense roll. Choose attack or defense when
gaining the Asset. It’s a one-time thing.
Sovereignty Assets
Loyalty. Honor. Obedience. These intangible principles are the glue that connect the
disparate elements of a culture. Some elements may be a bit more disparate than others.
Mass Appeal
Something about your Company appeals to the ordinary people who support it. This could
be ideological, practical, or a matter of perfect style. When rolling Territory+Treasure to
raise Sovereignty, or Sovereignty+Territory to raise Might, reduce any Difficulty by 1.
Patriotism
Your company inspires loyalty above and beyond self-interest. Members go the extra
mile, not because they expect reward, but because contributing is itself rewarding to
them. +2d to Might+Sovereignty rolls for policing against unconventional attacks.
Defiant Tradition
If your Company has a history of repulsing an invader, citizens are likely to have casual
knowledge of insurgent tactics—and encouraging stories to tell. Defiant cultures
aren’t the easiest to govern, but they don’t cave when times turn bad. +1d bonus to all
Sovereignty rolls if your Company is under attack from an outside force.
Assets
107
Companies
Culture of Shame and Gossip
Your group has a self-righteous streak, expressed by a tendency to shame those who
transgress the rules (written or unwritten). “Keep your mouth shut about other
people’s failings” is emphatically not one of those rules. +2 bonus when making
Might+Sovereignty rolls to police the populace.
Territory Assets
Land isn’t just an unrelieved plain of farmland. The same elements that make a
countryside interesting to they eye provide variety to the finances of those who dwell there.
Fortune Smiles
Economies are complex systems buffeted by the effects of other complex systems, making
the whole enterprise utterly unpredictable. Sometimes, this produces unlooked-for
benefits. +3d to the next roll that incorporates Territory.
Foundries, Smiths and Armorers
Manpower is an element of military strength, but giving soldiers something to stab
with and something to hide behind is also important. Your Company can equip its
troops and repair or replace equipment broken by the stresses of conflict. +2d bonus to
Sovereignty+Territory rolls to increase Might.
Defensible Terrain
Something in your land is a real pain in the arse for enemies to cross. It could be
mountains, a raging river, monster-infested woods, a string of fortresses, a blazing desert,
a big long wall—whatever it is, it really softens up anyone who tries to attack through
it. +2 bonus to Might+Territory rolls to defend your lands, if the attackers try to come
through the defensible area.
Cultural Tradition
Your Company has a longstanding artistic history of methods, themes and techniques.
Artisans and speakers can draw from these to produce something unique to your
people. Companies without these touchstones have to start every act of persuasion from
scratch. You get to stand on the shoulders of giants. Add a +2d bonus when rolling
Territory+Treasure to temporarily raise Sovereignty.
Treasure Assets
Treasure is specific. You either have gleaming arrays of coin, or you don’t. But since
Treasure also governs how you arrange and control your money, there are a few Assets
that can make your money specialize.
Assets
108
Chapter Four
Unbalanced Economy
It’s not necessarily bad that your cash flow ebbs predictably. Like the tides, what goes
out eventually comes back in. This may be due to yearly loans given to cash -poor nobles
before tax time, or a predictable crop. Pick six months of the year. You get +2 Treasure
during those months. During the other six months, you’re at –1 Treasure.
Permanent Underclass
It’s unpleasant, but having a designated ethnic minority, or family, or group of social
outcasts who perform the ugly scutwork can be a very slippery grease for progress.
Oppressing these underlings can yield bounties, as long as you don’t care or can drink
yourself to sleep afterwards. They’ll recover, right? They’re used to it. Once per year you
may permanently decrease Sovereignty by 1 in order to permanently raise Treasure by 1.
Rules of Plunder
Your military forces have some sort of discipline that controls their looting and pillaging.
It could be a code of honor, or rigidly enforced laws, or an officer corps that gets the
goodies first. Whatever it is, it means that your Company is good at making defeated
enemies pay for the costs of their own defeat. On the first Might+Treasure roll made to
attack in a single month, change one regular die to an ED.
Predictable Bounty
There’s some time of year when your Company has it good. It could be a harvest festival, it
could be when the snow pack melts and the traveling merchants come, it could be a holiday
or religious event. Money flows freely and people let down their guard. Pick one month per
year, during which your Company temporarily has +1 Territory, +1 Treasure and –1 Migh